[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
charlie state and
naga manchetti our headlines today back
in use in europe the rollout of the
oxford astrazeneca vaccine resumes
in germany france and italy after
regulators conclude
it is safe and effective here boris
johnson will have his first dose of the
oxford vaccine later
and urges the public to do the same the
oxford jab is safe and the
pfizer jab is safe the thing that isn't
safe is catching coving
nicholas sturgeon under pressure as a
scottish parliamentary committee
concludes
she misled them the first minister
stands by her evidence
and good morning from north yorkshire
millions of us go on coach trips every
year
but the pandemic has put this sector
under real financial
pressure they're hoping for a busy
summer to recoup those losses
good morning it's a huge day for jockey
rachel blackmore she's leading the way
already at the cheltenham festival
and today aims to become the first woman
to win the gold cup
raising a laugh but at a safe distance
red nose day goes ahead in the face of
covert restrictions
and it's a spring equinox this weekend
but the weather stays fairly cloudy for
most of you
at least most should stay dry i've got
the full forecast for you here on
breakfast
[Music]
good morning it's friday the 19th of
march our top story this morning the
oxford astrazeneca vaccine will be
rolled out in some european
countries today after regulators found
no evidence it causes
blood clots the prime minister boris
johnson will receive the vaccine today
and has assured the public that it's
safe after more than a dozen countries
paused their delivery of the jab
here's more from our health
correspondent catherine de costa
the oxford astrazeneca vaccine is safe
and effective at preventing covid with
no increased risk of blood clots
that's the consensus among regulators
and a message the prime minister hopes
will be heard around the world
today the european medicines agency has
come to a clear scientific
conclusion and i quote this is a safe
and effective vaccine so the oxford jab
is safe and the pfizer jab is safe
the thing that isn't safe is catching
kovid which is why
it's so important that we all get our
jabs as soon as our turn
comes the european medicines regulator
carried out a thorough review
looking at data from 20 million
vaccinated people
it looked in particular at rare blood
clots in the brain
and found 18 cases including 5 in the uk
there's no evidence of a link to the
vaccine but they'll continue to monitor
this condition
and are advising people with a number of
symptoms including a persistent headache
or unusual bruising to seek medical
advice
there is no increase in the overall risk
of blood clots with this vaccine
moreover
because the vaccine is effective in
preventing covet 19 disease
which in itself is a cause of blood
clots
it likely reduces the risks of
thrombotic events
overall italy and france are among the
first to announce they'll resume
using the astrazeneca vaccine and it
can't come soon enough
they're among several european countries
experiencing a third wave in new
infections
with further lockdown measures being
introduced catherine de costa
bbc news the french
capital paris is set to go into a
month-long covid lockdown as the country
fears a third wave
another 15 departments in the country
will also be placed under the same
measures from midnight tonight these
measures
will not be as strict as the previous
lockdown with people allowed to
exercise outdoors france has recorded
more than 35 000
new infections within the past 24 hours
now scotland's first minister nicola
sturgeon is facing calls to resign
because a committee of msps concluded
that she misled them
in their inquiry into the handling of
harassment claims against her
predecessor
alex salmond it's understood they voted
five to four
that she gave them an inaccurate account
when she answered their questions two
weeks ago
first minister says she stands by what
she said our political correspondent
nick earley has this report i solemnly
sincerely and
truly declare this is nicola sturgeon
two weeks ago
giving evidence to the scottish
parliament about how her government
handled allegations of sexual harassment
against alex salmond it was a mammoth
session
eight hours in total but the committee
has decided
she misled them in the process in a
meeting last night
a narrow majority on the committee five
to four
made that decision their full report
will be published next week
but opposition parties same as sturgeon
can no longer be trusted
it's absolutely abundantly clear that
nicola sturgeon has breached the
ministerial code
as first minister you cannot continue if
you have been untruthful
if you have misled parliament and you've
misled the people of scotland
it is a resigning matter pure and simple
the first minister has always denied
misleading msps
and last night she stood by her evidence
she said
what's been clear is that opposition
members of this committee
made their minds up about me before i
uttered a single word of evidence
their public comments have made that
clear this committee has unfortunately
experienced an awful lot of leaking and
information coming out in ways that are
neither helpful
nor necessarily accurate i think that
this is more of the
the challenge that we see again here um
and i'll be waiting to hear from
the actual report in under a week the
scottish parliament will break up for
the election
the coming days will be dominated by
questions over whether ms sturgeon
misled parliament
the election campaign may well be too
nick early bbc news
glasgow the duke and duchess of sussex
have issued a statement after it was
revealed
that the sun newspaper paid an american
private investigator to obtain personal
information about meghan markle in the
early days of their relationship
the couple is said now has said that now
is a moment to reflect on the predatory
practices of the media
which it's they say are reaping
irreversible damage on families and
relationships the publisher of the sun
news uk accepts it paid the investigator
but insists it never
asked for or knew of any unlawful
activity
the investigator admits to breaking the
law
people in cumbria cornwall and
northumberland will be among the first
in england to get ultra-fast
broadband as part of the government's
plan to roll out high-speed broadband to
the majority of homes across the uk
by the end of 2025. work will begin next
year
with more than one million homes in
rural areas set to benefit from the
first stage of the scheme
now poor dental health is still a
significant problem in england according
to a new report despite it being largely
preventable the new study from public
health looks for the first time at how
people's circumstances
can have an impact and says inequality
is a major factor john donaldson has
this report
this report says that while overall
dental and oral health is improving
across england
much still depends on your socioeconomic
background
and where you live this is especially
the case for children
in 2019 five-year-olds from the most
deprived areas of the country
were more than three times as likely to
have tooth decay
as those from the least deprived there
is a similar imbalance
in dental health amongst adults public
health england says
barriers to nhs care including cost and
lack of available services
are partly responsible it says that
people from the south of england
have significantly healthier teeth and
mouths than those living in the midlands
and the north
the research also says that women who
brush their teeth more often
consume less sugar and visit the dentist
for checkups more frequently than men
and surprisingly have fewer dental
problems
john donason bbc news
daniel craig kyra knightley and olivia
coleman are amongst
the stars taking part in tonight's
socially distant comic relief
yes tonight on bbc one will raise money
to tackle hunger homelessness
and domestic abuse and mental health our
entertainment correspondent colin
patterson
has been finding out what's in tonight's
show
[Music]
this is the first socially distanced
comic relief
red knows they will be different this
year we know that it's hard financially
for so many people right now
but we'd love it to join us even if it's
just to share a laugh
tonight's show will be shorter only
three hours but the vicar of dibley
returns with a special message
last year i was sponsored five pounds
per villager
if i could squeeze a whole granny smith
into my mouth job done
while david tennant and michael sheen
take part in an historical version of
their lockdown hit
staged i'm gonna write about this about
the plague yeah
does happen people want yes they want
social realism
do they okay yeah and catherine tate's
nan
joins james bond for a secret briefing
so secret
all that's been released so far is this
one photo
the money raised by comic relief will be
used to support those who have been
hardest hit by the coronavirus pandemic
but the knight's other aim is to simply
make people laugh
colin patterson bbc news
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news